>>It has been said that there
are three kinds of awakening.
There's the waking up that
occurs when an individual wakes
up from a long night's sleep.
There is the awakening that
occurs when an individual makes
their transition and discovers
that there is no death.
And then there is
the most important
waking up-- the
waking up that occurs
when an individual realizes
they have never been born
and they will never die.
That they are an
eternal, immortal being.
My awakening came in the
form of a reoccurring dream.
It was a lucid dream.
Night after night, I was
being chased by three men.
Each night, these men became
closer and closer to me.
Until finally, they caught me.
Two of them held me
down as the third man
towered over me
with a long knife.
He suddenly lunged
in my direction
and plunged his
blade into my heart.
I screamed out.
And I died.
When I awoke, everything
was different.
I had changed.
The fear, the anxiety, the
worry had disintegrated.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Morning.
>>Good morning and good night.
>>Funny. [INAUDIBLE].
>>From that moment on,
there was an enthusiasm.
An enthusiasm for discovering
what had happened to me.
A feeling tone of discovery and
exploration, into exactly who
and what was I
This awakening had
tried to happen
at other times in my life,
but I had outwitted it
and prevented it from occurring.
But with this death,
there was no going back,
and my life now was about
discovering and expressing
the vitalizing, loving
presence that we all are.
It allowed me to
discover, ultimately,
what meditation was and is.
An undistractable attention to
that which is real, that which
is forever, that which is alive.
We discover, ultimately,
that we're not
trying to fit meditation
into our busy life,
with our to do list,
with all the things
that need to be done.
No, little by little,
we make a discovery
that our life begins to
revolve around our meditation.
>>I feel in awe all the time.
I'll come home and see my
beloved sitting at the piano.
And we begin, as we've
done over the years,
to listen to what
she's listening to,
and then watch a song emerge.
And then, in a couple of weeks,
listening to our choir sing it,
or the congregation chanting.
>>This came to me in my sleep.
I woke up to this.
>>Mm.
>>[SINGING]
>>Something that
emerged out of a dream.
>>It's beautiful.
>>Hey.
[SINGING]
>>After all the free services,
I went to a book signing.
And then we've got that
dinner at the house tonight.
>>That's tonight?
>>Yeah.
Mario van Peebles
and his wife, and--
>>Well, who'd going the food?
Because Mama's not cooking.
>>Vegan Village.
>>OK, I'm feeling better.
>>[LAUGHING]
>>You know, my mom
and dad are coming by.
You know, my dad's
coming out to the house.
>>Oh, man, I wish
my mom were in town.
>>Yeah.
>>She'd love to be there.
>>You realize that
today is November 30th?
The actual birthday of Agape?
>>21 years ago, I showed up.
>>That's right.
>>On this day.
>>And did you know that a
year later, on that Sunday,
I sang "I Thank You,"
the first song we wrote?
Now, you know,
that's synchronicity.
>>Give me the warble on that.
>>Huh?
>>Give me the little
warble on that.
>>A little warble?
>>Sing.
>>[SINGING]
>>So what does it feel
like, to see yourself
all over the place?
Well, not yourself, but
to hear your message
all over the place.
>>It feels good.
It feels good.
It feels like when I said
yes many years ago, that you
can actually-- the spirit
knew more than I did.
>>You know, when I look at
you, I see my dream come true.
>>[LAUGHING]
>>That's funny.
We've gotta get you a TV show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I'm tremendously
grateful that I
stand at the center
of a community that's
been in existence
now over 22 years.
And it reflects and reveals
a joy, a celebration,
an appreciation for being,
allowing us to show up
and to be in service
to each other,
to humanity, to celebrate
the love and the diversity
and the uniqueness of
each and every individual,
and to not be
ashamed to be happy.
And guess what.
Today is the actual 22nd
anniversary of Agape.
22 years, November 30th, 1986.
22.
November 30th, 1986.
Baby, what's happening?
>>[INAUDIBLE] just warming up.
>>Yes.
>>Good service.
Good day.
Nina, happy Sunday.
>>Happy Sunday, Rev.
>>Happy Sunday.
>>It's a good service, baby.
>>Thank you, baby.
>>Happy Sunday.
>>I'll see you at home.
>>We feel liberated.
>>We've got one more service.
>>See you at home?
>>I'll see you at home
after the service.
>>So Rev, do you eat organic
food as much as possible?
>>As much as possible.
When I travel, a
little t, sometimes I
have to smudge a little bit.
But most of the time, yeah.
>>Well, you travel a lot.
Do you eat locally grown,
go to farmer's markets?
>>I try to, but sometimes I have
food sent to where I'm going.
>>Oh, nice.
And how about this?
Do you bless your food
before you eat it?
>>I bless the food.
I think it's very important,
because with pesticides,
and with all the things that
technology has done to food,
they've taken out the insects,
they've taken out the birds
singing to it, and so there's
no activation of sunlight
in the food anymore.
And so we have to
actually bless the food
to activate that sunlight
that's in the food.
>>Activate the vibration.
>>Absolutely.
Most people don't know that.
>>I love that.
>>You're not just
thanking God for food.
You're actually making
the food vibrational
friendly with your body when
you hold it and bless it.
>>And so when you feed
your dogs, Shiba and Biko,
do you bless--
>>I bless the dogs, yes.
>>You do?
>>I do.
>>I do too.
>>I give them very
special food, because they
get my leftovers of my shake.
>>What is in that green shake
that you make every morning?
>>I don't know if I
can tell you that.
>>The first time I ever went
to Agape, I was by myself,
and it was a little
overwhelming for me.
And then you had all the
new members stand up.
>>If it's your first time
at Agape, please stand.
All first timers.
Wow.
So many new people here today.
The congregation of
Agape contemplates
unconditional love, and they
allow it to move consciously
through their mind and
their soul, their heart,
and their hands.
And we say this to you.
Welcome to Agape.
>>Welcome to Agape.
>>We recognize you.
>>We know who you really are.
>>You are the spiritual image
and the very likeness of God.
>>You are a unique way in
which love, intelligence,
and divine beauty are
happening on this planet.
>>You are a unique way in
which love, intelligence,
and divine beauty are
happening on this planet.
>>Today, we get to
celebrate your life.
We appreciate you.
>>We appreciate you.
>>And we thank God for you.
>>Welcome to Agape!
>>[CHEERING]
>>They start crying, because
they've never been totally
accepted, and totally--
>>Unconditional love.
And totally recognized.
>>Ooh.
>>Yeah.
>>Especially the part-- we
see you, we recognize you.
>>Right.
>>There's something about
that that just-- I mean,
I feel like I'm
gonna cry right now.
>>We have people sometimes
that have been there before,
but they stand up to
get a double dose.
I know they've
been there before,
and they'll stand up just
to feel the presence off--
>>I can remember
over 22 years ago,
as I was giving
up the resistance
to being an instrument through
which this community could
be born.
I can remember not
wanting to do that.
I thought I liked my life.
I was teaching.
I was counseling.
I was doing seminars.
I had my weekends free.
Private life.
It was cool.
But something within
was saying, there's
more in you that
wants to come forward.
There's something
within you that you
need to take another step.
You need to take a leap.
You need to move.
And as I was trying
to navigate myself
around staying where I was
and pretending to grow,
I can remember this crook
that I had in my neck
that I was constantly
going to a chiropractor
to have it adjusted
because I didn't have
full mobility
turning to the right.
And it would always be adjusted.
The chiropractor
would do a good job,
and then a couple weeks later,
it would be there again.
And the one day, I was
sitting in my office,
and I gave my whole
soul, unattached, yes.
No bargaining with the presence.
Yes, I'm ready.
Yes, I'm able.
Yes, I'm willing to
take the next step.
And in that moment, my
neck cracked into place.
And I had full mobility.
That moment when I liberated
that energy and said yes,
it saved me.
It set me free.
It allowed the mobility and
the flexibility to be there.
>>And you also said that
you had this neck problem,
and you went to
the chiropractor,
and it didn't get fixed.
And you said it was
your unwillingness
to take the next step.
Do you think that all disease
and illness and injury
is an unwillingness
to take the next step?
>>I don't want to
use the word all,
but I do want to say something
that the body temple is
a perfect feedback loop as to
what's happening in your mind
and in your soul.
Unconscious thought
patterns, incorrect beliefs,
things that you're holding
onto, stagnant thoughts.
They will show up
in the body temple.
in the mental body.
They will show up in
the emotional body.
So you've got to have a perfect
feedback loop in the body
temple, and so therefore,
disease and disharmony
are absolutely giving you
a message that there's
something that needs to
be shifted and changed.
>>In addition to food,
clothing, and shelter,
love is a basic human
need, too, right?
>>Love is what we are made from.
We are the spiritual
image and likeness
of the love which is the total
givingness of the presence
everywhere.
And that's what we're
striving to do-- to wake up
to the loving essence of
who and what we really are.
>>I have one final
question for you.
It's the big money question.
Are you ready?
>>Uh-oh.
Here you go.
>>What did the Zen Buddhist
say to the hot dog vendor?
>>For the money?
Final answer is, make
me one with everything.
>>That's right.
>>But you know what?
The other part-- he gives
the guy too much money,
and then he asks for change.
And the hot dog vendor says,
change comes from within.
>>That's good.
It's all good.
>>It's all good.
>>Name everything good.
>>It's all good in
God's neighborhood,
and God's neighborhood
is everywhere.
>>We're living in a
time in human history
where a shift has
occurred in a major way.
Men have a particular,
particular focus
that we have to be about.
It's been this
whole masculine way
of being in the world that has
caused a lot of the problems
on the planet.
The raping of the Earth,
the pollution, the wars,
the rumors of wars, the whole
acquisition consciousness
of hoarding and getting and
domination, manipulation
and control.
It behooves us as men
to be able to become
very comfortable with
the feminine within us.
To embrace that.
To fall back in love
with that aspect of us
that is of the divine feminine,
and to allow it to balance
the masculine aspect
of ourself, for this
is the time in
human history where
that rising up of the
feminine is so very necessary.
When we resolve to evolve,
our problems dissolve.
If we live life according
to that pattern,
becoming a regifter
of the cosmic energy
within us, embracing the
feminine that is within us,
there's hope for us.
There's hope for us all.
And that's the way it is, Jay.
Be sure to step up to the plate.
>>OK, Baba.
>>You the man.
You the man.
Let's go.
>>We allow this moment of
gratitude and thanksgiving
and appreciation to be the lens
through which we look at life.
Thus, we see infinite
possibilities
of love and peace and harmony.
We take this opportunity
and bless each other.
We bless the food
we're about to eat,
knowing that the nourishment of
light invades the body temple
and allows us to be the strong
instrumentalities through which
more love and more peace and
more joy and more creativity
graces the planet.
For this and more than words can
ever say, we remain thankful,
and we let it be.
And so it is.
>>And so it is.
>>Amen.
>>Bon apetit, everybody.
Let's eat.
>>We're on the path of
spiritual liberation,
embracing the impulse, the
presence of God within us.
That's the evolutionary impulse
that governs the universe.
We are moving from being snagged
by the ego's perception that
shows a world of lack and
limitation and scarcity.
And it's very interested
in the temporal.
It's very interested in
that which is transitory.
And you're moving until you're
more interested in the eternal,
and you're bringing
the eternal into time.
You're bringing love, peace,
joy, wisdom, justice, harmony,
well-being, prosperity.
All the harmonizing
goodness of the universe.
You're bringing that
into the transitory.
You're glowing in
the transitory.
And I begin by
understanding that as I'm
activating this potential
through my affirmative prayer,
my meditation, my sacred
service, my fellowship,
my study, all the ways that I
become a strong instrumentality
through which this life can
begin to flow through me.
And understand this.
Regardless of how
many mistakes we've
made, regardless of how
many times we've fallen,
regardless of all the
things that have gone wrong
in our life, then life doesn't
know anything about that.
Life only knows itself.
Life is alive, you see?
And the moment the yes
factor is higher than maybe,
and I don't know,
and no, it begins
to retool every
area in our life,
and it uses all the
bad stuff for good.
It uses everything
in your life in order
for you to give your gift to the
universe, your gift to spirit,
your gift to the world.
It uses everything that
has ever happened to you,
and it turns it all good
at that particular moment.
So you don't ever have to
ever think, I've blown it.
I've messed up.
I'll never be able to make it.
I'll never be able to glow
for the presence of God.
I've blown it for so long.
No, there is no time
in the spiritual realm.
The moment, you
know, when you turn
on the light-- the
electricity doesn't say,
this person has had this
light switch off for 16 years.
I don't know.
They've made too many mistakes.
They've walked in
the dark too long.
They haven't turned
on the light.
I don't know if
I'm going to glow.
I just don't know.
But no.
You turn on that light.
If all the circuits are A-OK,
it's going to glow for you.
In that same way, you
turn on that inner light.
Doesn't matter how
many mistakes you've
made in life, how many mistakes.
You get it right one
time, it's all you need.
That connection, you see?
Gift.
>>You say this great thing that
I quote you all the time about.
You say you can't be
the light of the world
if you can't pay
your light bill.
And what that tells me is
that there's this opportunity
to give, but also be
responsible for your life.
That doesn't mean have dreams
that are pie in the sky dreams
that have no foundation to them.
That there's a way to
live who you really
are, to actually be an
expression of who you are.
And at the same
time, pay attention
to your responsibility
to your family,
and to your spiritual
community, and to the world.
>>Absolutely.
We use these universal
spiritual principles
to stabilize our
structures first.
That is, our health, our
finances, our right livelihood,
relationships.
We get them stabilized
not as an endgame,
but as a leap off point
to go further into who
and what we really
are, and to discover
our gifts of creativity,
and to express them.
Which you can't do that if
you're just trying to survive.
So we use the principles not
to become great consumers,
not to just become
multi-millionaires
just for the sake of that.
But we use the principles
to become stable
so that we can
share who we really
are without having to
be overly concerned
about our health, our finances,
and those type of things.
>>Yeah.
The scary place, frankly,
is the financial picture,
because you still
have to pay the bills.
And that's the spiritual
quandary I find myself in.
>>And there's also time
away from your kids, too.
>>Exactly.
>>You're having kids--
with us, it's like,
do I do that movie over here,
and then am I the absentee dad?
That's tricky stuff.
>>That spiritual
quandary that you're in,
though, is also the
confusion that you're then
going to see in
your life because
of your confusion in your mind.
So you have to learn how
to maybe center yourself
and meditate on it, and
really get to that place
where your true self shines
through these equipments.
>>I think these things
we get presented
with-- they're very
individual to us.
They're very unique.
It's a certain kind of
communication that comes,
and it's the
opportunity that you
have to move out of the safety
of your present paradigm.
And so it's the opportunity
that you have to take a chance
and do something different, and
really practice the principles.
Because we can go and listen
and hear and be so inspired,
and be inspired all day
or into the next day.
But if we're not actually
taking the things
that Reverend Michael says, or
taking the things that we read
and really implementing them--
I mean, our life has to be,
really, our laboratory
where we really practice.
And I think the
things that scare us
the most are the things
that really produce
the most powerful
and lasting results.
>>All of nature is
in glee and ecstasy
for simply being
able to participate
in the divine realm.
And you are moving from
meditation to celebration,
paying indestructible attention
to that wholesome and whole
soul reality so that
you can consciously
celebrate your
participation in the divine,
not distracted by the issues,
the challenges, the obstacles,
the hindrances
that you're facing
or that may be facing you.
But allowing that celebration
to so take you over
that it liberates your
mind, liberates your soul,
liberates your heart so
that the destiny that
is within you, as a singular
manifestation of a cosmic good
that is seeking by
means of you to unfold
can unfold-- with your
permission, by the way.
Are you feeling
what I am saying?
At that point, you're
stepping into the field
of spiritual liberation.
That is, the conscious
embracing of this impulse that
allows you to unhook from the
filter, the perception that
ego casts in front of you.
You're able to unhook
from the ego concerns
and allow yourself to be
guided by your sole faculty.
>>I I had a really profound
moment happen in sports.
The Lakers won the championship.
It was Kobe's
first championship.
And I'll never
forget this moment.
Just won. they put a
microphone in his face.
They go, how do you feel?
And he goes, wait
until next year.
We're going to get him again.
I'm going, wow, he
couldn't enjoy the moment?
Maybe for a second?
You know, so here,
his whole life, this
is what he wanted to
achieve, and now he
can't wait until the next year.
Wait!
We're gonna get them again.
I go, whoa.
Is that what it's about?
So it goes to show you
that those achievements--
they're all thoughts.
In my mind, that's
what I used to have.
And now that I've had
them, I understand.
It's taken an entirely different
direction, so much of it
inspired by coming to
church here for 18 years.
It was just allowing
the me to come out
that was there since birth.
>>That's a very good point--
allowing the me to come out.
Because the goals are not
just about accomplishment.
It's what you become in the
process of going after it.
You know, what you
eliminate within yourself--
the ego, the false pride,
the apathy or lethargy.
Whatever it is you have to
do to get to a certain level.
It's not just getting
that accomplishment.
It's what you're
becoming along the way.
That's really what you
get to take with you.
That's a part of your soul.
Whether it's a fine acting
job, or a bit of healing,
or architecture, or
a piece of music.
It's what you become in the
process of delivering that.
>>And that was really powerful,
because you spoke not just
about the fear of failure--
can we handle failure?
Can we manage success?
Can we survive success?
>>Can we survive success?
>>Can you handle success?
Can you handle
being magnificent?
Can you handle greatness?
Can you handle
what they're going
to say about you when you
begin to have your light shine
a little bright?
Can you handle that?
Can you handle mediocrity
attacking your excellence
when it starts to
flow through you?
Can you handle all the stuff
that when you start to really
shine and break free from
the mediocrity on the level
of the human mundanity--
can you handle
what comes at you
when that takes place?
Can you say yes tot hat?
>>I'm at this point
my life that's
a big transition going on,
and I feel it inside of me.
And today pushed me over,
because you had us saying yes,
yes.
And I have to tell you,
though, that the last yes
that you said-- I had a hard
time doing that definitive yes.
It frightened me.
>>Which was the last yes?
>>It was about mediocrity.
Are you willing to give up
the people of mediocrity that
are going to try to take
you down, basically?
And I wasn't willing to make
that commitment at that time.
I was going, yes, yes,
and I went, yeah, kind of.
Because those people
really do affect me.
And I'm not willing
to give that up yet.
And of all the yeses,
you would think
that would be the one
that would be the easiest,
but that was the most
difficult for me,
because I didn't
want to just fake it.
I didn't want to say yes for
the sake of saying it, just
to be spiritual and uplifted,
and now I'm going to get this.
>>In that moment, you're
coming to an understanding
that you are here as a
bearer of the gift that
is lodged within you that
you are setting free.
And at that moment, you
are releasing attachment
to outcomes, but
the outcomes are
bigger than you could
possibly imagine.
And now you're in the field
of birthing the gift economy--
the spiritual gift domain
where individuals are living
on this planet to share,
to shine, to glow, to give,
to radiate the gift that
is within them as a matter
of course, magnifying
and multiplying
the spirit of the living
God that is within them.
You are here to bear gifts at
that dimension, at that domain,
at that level.
And when that
begins to happen, I
want you to imagine
a world, now,
in which the ego has not
siphoned off that impulse
and created hoarding,
and created a stinginess,
and created all manner of ways
that have produced stagnation
in immature economic systems,
where there's evidence of lack
and limitation, and not enough.
Just imagine a world in
which individuals are here
to share and shine and
glow and give their gifts.
>>You know, what is it that
really wants to emerge in you?
What are you stifling?
What gifts are trying
to come forward?
And then give
permission for that,
and become willing to
walk through that fear.
>>It was just last month I
finally got what that meant.
And I've heard you
say it so many times.
So many times.
And I was in a place where
I was under a circumstance,
and I was going, should I choose
this way of dealing with it,
or should I choose that way?
And both had valid
arguments, and I
didn't know which
way I should choose.
And somebody said,
well, the rev would say,
what's seeking to emerge
in this situation?
Which took me out of
the equation completely.
And that was so beautiful,
because from that, I could see,
oh.
I see that there's
peace that's emerging.
There's love and
compassion that's
emerging within
this circumstance.
And so that, to
me, was so helpful.
>>On a national scale,
there's something
trying to emerge in America.
Compassion's trying to emerge.
It's trying to happen.
And the America right or
wrong consciousness is dying.
And now, humanitarian
vibration is rising.
Compassion is rising.
That's what's trying to happen.
And some of it's coming
through suffering.
People losing things
tremendously-- things
they thought were valuable.
And some of it's
coming through insight.
But it's coming, one
way or the other.
>>Even the notion that
nothing would stop terrorism,
no military force
would stop terrorism.
It would have to be a
shift from a take economy
to a give economy.
Once there's plenty
that people have,
then we're not going to be
in the business of terrorism.
A friend of mine once
broke it down to me,
and he said that plenty
equals choice equals freedom.
Scarcity equals
dependence equals control.
>>Right.
>>So if you can
create an environment
where people think things are
scarce, then they're dependent.
If they're dependent,
you can control them.
Or you think you can.
>>Absolutely.
>>And we find out we can't.
>>That was the
Rand Institute that
talked about that
particular study.
>>Understand why the Rand
Institution recently said,
after a lengthy
research project,
said that there is no military
solution to terrorism at all.
The only solution is
when so called terrorists
are brought into the
political system.
And that happens when there's
enough food, water, shelter,
education.
When there is enough of the
fundamental needs being met,
then terrorism dissolves
in that particular area.
You see?
So if we're living in a gift
economy, rather than a hoarding
economy, we're living in a
gift economy, rather than
an acquisition economy,
we're living in a gift
rather than a get
economy, you're
talking about the birth of a
kind and just global society
where everyone has what they
need as the fundamentals,
as the rock bottom fundamentals.
Where does it begin?
>>People are quick to
look at the stock market
and say that it's
good if it's going up,
and it's bad if it's going down,
when in truth, it may not even
mean that at all.
Because you look
at pharmaceuticals,
you look at prisons, you look
at war, you look at ammunition.
You look at a lot of things,
and when they're selling high,
the stock market is up.
That means that more
people are sick,
more people are being arrested.
Many negative things happen that
are driving the stock market
up.
But what if
suddenly, people were
to wake up and stop
eating bad food?
Stop eating fast food?
What if they would wake
up and start exercising?
What if they would
wake up and start
doing a tremendous amount
of preventative measures?
Then the pharmaceutical
company would go down,
the stock market
would go down, but it
would reflect something good.
So you can't really
look at the stock market
as an indicator of something
good, other than profit.
And all profit is
not a good thing.
And so I think we're
looking at an evolving
state of consciousness
and an evolving economy,
where noble profit-- where
real profit is really
about the business of not only
your business flourishing,
but it's also a measure of
how much you're giving back.
It's also a measure
of how you're
contributing to the global
society of everyone's needs
being met, producing a society
of creativity and evolution
of the soul.
>>That is the universal one, now
expressing itself through you.
And you can't take
credit for that.
You are now bearing a
gift of the universe.
You can see this played out
a lot of time in celebrity.
You can see this being played
out a lot of times in athletic,
where an individual will make
a touchdown, or they'll dunk,
and then they'll
take all the credit.
You know, they'll
flex, because they
have forgotten that this is
a gift from the universal one
to express.
It's an activation of potential.
It is a gift.
And they have forgotten
there's many things that
went behind them jumping over
that particular touchdown line.
There were blockers, probably.
There was probably
a quarterback.
There was probably a coach.
There was probably
a whole fan base.
people practicing
for months and
months and months,
working on that particular
execution of that play.
And then, of course, their own
level of skill and development
that allowed them to be at the
right place at the right time
to leap over that
particular goal line.
But the moment they
said me and mine,
at that particular
moment, the ego
is taking that
particular impulse,
and that life begins
to degenerate.
You can begin to see the
breakup of relationships.
You begin to see
alcoholism and drug abuse.
You can begin to
see all the things,
because the individual
cannot survive success,
because they think
it's just them,
and they think it's a personal
accomplishment rather than
a gift from God.
>>When I was listening
to you today,
you were talking about the
football player, the basketball
player, the whoever
players, right?
And they get that touchdown,
or they make that three points.
I, I, I. But it is them.
I mean, sure, they've
got people behind them,
but they have the ability.
>>Sure.
What I was saying was it's not
just personal accomplishment.
It's actually an
activation of a potential,
and that potential is universal.
It's the presence trying to
express itself through us.
Bill Russell, in
his autobiography,
talks about the fact
that sometimes he
would put his foot
on the court, and he
knew it was going to be a
special game, because all
of a sudden, winning and
losing didn't matter.
He was participating
in a flow of energy.
And sometimes, he would
recognize the other player
on the other team
recognizing that, too,
and they knew where the
ball was going to be passed.
He knew how to block the
shot before the person even
knew they were
going to shoot it.
And when they stepped
off the court,
they knew they had
participated in something.
It didn't matter whether
they won or lost.
They were participating
in a flow of energy
in which their best came out.
And that's an example of not
being attached to an outcome.
And this is where
great art comes from.
This is where great music
comes from, great architecture,
great healing.
You're in the present
moment, but you
don't have an attachment.
There's no detachment.
Detachment and non-attachment
are two different things.
Detachment is I don't care.
I'm not going to play.
I don't want to be hurt anymore,
so I'm not going to play.
But non-attachment
is, I'm fully playing,
but with no attachment
to an outcome.
That is spiritual practice.
>>You are here to break free.
You are here to
liberate yourself,
which means something
within you is saying,
in substance, liberty or death.
That's a very serious kind of
thing, if you believe in death.
But liberty or death--
of course, Patrick Henry
said, give me liberty
or give me death,
but we're spiritualizing that
in this particular domain,
and coming to an understanding
that there's a power within us.
Great potential within us.
And this power that is
within us can save us.
It can set us free or, if
denied, it will kill us.
We will live a life of
terminal frustration,
becoming a part of
the walking dead that
becomes a part of the vampire
clan sucking the life out
of those individuals who are
living a life of inspiration.
that is not your lot, and
that is not your lot in life.
>>I'm committed
to certain things,
but then I always
think what prevents me
from true magnificence is I look
at-- my child was next to me
today in the service.
And I'm just going,
well, what about him?
He's used to a
certain lifestyle.
So, I mean, I don't know-- you
know, Jesus didn't have kids.
>>Not that you know of.
>>He had disciples
that were worse.
>>But what your
kid gets from you,
though, is that you're
going for excellence.
It's what you're going for.
My father is sitting back
there, and he went to law school
when I was in high school.
And there were people around him
when he was a probation officer
saying, what are you doing?
You've got three kids.
When did you know you
wanted to go to law school?
What prompted that?
>>I guess the probation was
getting old at that time,
and it was a lot of caseloads
that I had to cover.
And I knew I wasn't
going anywhere,
because I wasn't involved
too much in administration.
It was a desk job.
So law appealed to me,
and a lot of the guys that
were in probation were
going into law as well.
That was a long time ago, and
it was a challenge at the time,
because nobody in the family
had ever been a lawyer.
And I thought I could make
it, so bam, there it was.
>>But when I got from that
was how it translated to me
is he didn't let
anything stop him.
The people around him the
mediocre people saying,
what are you doing?
That translated into me.
That's what your
kid's gonna get.
>>Same with me.
Growing up with my dad as
an independent filmmaker
was very much the
paterno-fascist, but a by any
means necessary
kind of filmmaker.
Which really passed along
to me a sense of there
was no reason that
you couldn't do it.
>>And so as the filters-- as
you are liberating yourself
from the grasp of
the ego, you begin
to see life a
little differently.
And you can tell
when the ego has you,
because the ego is concerned
with the temporary.
The ego is concerned
with the transitory,
whereas your soul is
concerned with eternity.
Your soul is concerned with
the eternal [INAUDIBLE]
of the spirit.
The ego is concerned with
the temporary zone-- what
you may lose, how
you may get hurt,
what might happen if you take a
step forward, where the soul is
aware of the eternal
qualities of the spirit.
The love, the peace, the joy,
the kindness, the well being.
And so you can
always tell where you
are as you're
moving through life.
Am I looking at life through
the ego, the temporal zone,
or am I looking at my
life through my soul,
through my divine spirit?
And I am here to release the
energy of love, peace, joy,
wisdom, and harmony.
This gives you
kind of a barometer
as to where you're
living your life.
And if you're stuck in the
muck of the transitory, when
you become conscious
of that, you
begin to elevate your
awareness through
your soulful affirmation,
your introspection,
your contemplation, your
taking the stand for life.
And then watch as
you become unhooked
by the malicious hypnotism of
the world that will tell you
that you are a consumer
and not a creator.
>>We share our gifts.
We activate our
potential, and then
share who we are as
a matter of course.
The world would look a lot
differently than it does now.
The sense of scarcity
would die out.
People's basic
needs would be met.
Terrorism would dissolve.
And we'd begin to live
in a society in which
the basic needs would be
met, creativity and beauty
would flower, and the
evolution of one's soul
would be why we are here.
And that's where I see us going.
That's where I see is the
next step of human evolution.
But it begins right here.
It begins within
our own thought--
our own consciousness.
>>Our life glows and grows
from glory to a greater glory.
Oh, feel it now.
We're talking
spiritual liberation.
Not religiosity.
Not churchianity.
We're talking connection
with the divine.
Do you feel it?
[? Ricky BB ?], anchor.
Help them anchor the feeling.
>>At least for myself, anyway,
I know that when I was younger,
it was all about
what I could achieve.
I was trying to
satisfy this idea
of what I thought success was.
And when I would do
something that I was proud of
and that my family was proud,
I was marking my territory.
It's like, OK, I did that.
I was able to do this.
But I found that as I got
more into my spiritual
walk, and really doing
the practice, really
with the meditation and
really with the readings.
>>[SINGING]
>>Then I began to
identify with something
beyond what I
thought success was.
What was revealed
to me was something
that I couldn't have met
for myself, because you
said something about I can
achieve the inner success.
But I don't know
that we really know
what that is until
we do the work,
and then it reveals what it is.
And it's really something
quite phenomenal.
Way more than I ever expected.
That now, when
something great happens,
it's not a personal
success at all.
There's no way we could
claim credit for it.
>>Right.
>>We don't do it for
the credit, you know?
We do it for the joy.
>>[SINGING]
>>Because we're involved--
not merely enthralled,
but involved-- with
supreme inspiration.
The vibration of the
most high, the presence.
I want you to just
for a moment, take
the hand of the
individual next to you.
Because in this unified
field, we're all connected.
Someone once said,
who is your neighbor?
And in the unified field,
since we're all connected,
we know that everyone
is our neighbor.
No one is left out.
So whose hand you're
holding represents
everyone in the sanctuary.
Everyone that they're
connected with.
Everyone they're connected with.
We bless those in front
of us, those behind us,
those to our side, and
we form a powerful prayer
field that expands the globe.
We simultaneously
receive the prayers
that are now being given.
So we're giving and
receiving simultaneously.
It's in breath, out breath.
It's availability.
Making a mighty
difference on the planet.
Everything affects everything.
Your thought affects
everything in the universe.
So right now, this prayer
is affecting everything.
And we're willing to
be a part of the birth
of the green collar economy.
We're a part of the birth
of the gift economy.
We're a part of the birth of a
kind and just global society,
beginning with our
own heart and soul.
>>What are you reading?
>>My favorite book.
>>Who's your favorite author?
>>You.
[INAUDIBLE]
>>>>[LAUGHING] [INAUDIBLE]
got in here, huh?
What a beautiful day, huh?
>>Good day.
>>It was contagious.
Everybody was just
feeling the love.
>>Good sermon, too, baby.
>>Thank you.
>>You're so kind.
>>Music was off the chart.
>>Mm-hm.
Mm-hm.
>>Off the chart.
You going to sleep already?
>>Mm-hm.
Keep talking.
You've been talking all day.
It's time to go to sleep.
>>All right, all right.
>>I'm listening.
Go ahead, go ahead.
>>All right, all right.
>>Love you.
>>I'll meet you in dreamland.
>>Night.
>>A great mystic once said
when we rediscover love,
it will be like discovering
fire for the second time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I think a lot of us were
in shackles of our own brain,
based on ideas of religious
texts or interpretations
that we inherited.
>>It's to let go of the
dogma that we've learned.
To allow that spirit
inside you-- call it God,
call it the universe,
call it energy.
But as Reverend Michael
would say, call it forth.
>>The hardest work
I have ever done
is spiritual practice
in order to be liberated
from all those ideas,
thoughts, and beliefs,
and in order to be liberated,
and to be free to be who I am,
and to bring forward
the gifts I have.
So it's like the
hardest work, but it's
borne the richest fruit.
I mean, it just
touches me, you know?
It's perfect.
>>I don't care how
many jobs you have
or how many degrees you
acquire, how much money,
how much property.
There is a void, a
hole that happens
in your heart and your
life when you are not
in relationship with spirit.
>>My spiritual liberation
started with me giving myself
permission to walk
at my own pace.
>>Just be willing.
Just be willing to believe
there's another way.
>>Some days, I could run.
>>Be willing.
>>Some days I had a slow mark.
>>Be available.
>>And some days I crawled.
But the commitment was
to never stop moving.
>>And when that doesn't work,
eat chocolate, and you'll know.
[LAUGHING] Chocolate is a
demonstration of God's love.
You didn't know that?
>>Everybody always is wanting,
well, how do I get happy?
How do I get happy?
And really, the key
is living on purpose.
That's it.
>>As long as I'm coming
from my inner voice,
I've learned to
trust that wherever
I am, if that's guiding me,
everything's on purpose.
>>So when we find ourselves
veering away from it,
which we will, we can
get right back at center
and unite with that part
of our being that is truth
and that is love and that is
kindness and that is godliness.
>>Just staying the
course with my practice,
my meditation, my service.
Everything that I do in my life.
>>And that'll take you beyond
all your comfort zones,
so then you know real
transformation is happening,
and you know you're really
growing into a greater
sense of who you really are.
>>It's all in us.
It's all good.
And to liberate that
and just allow yourself
to just go with
that and recognize
that spirit within you that is
the true self of who you really
are.
>>So that you can actually be
called forth from that, instead
of living from all
your wants and desires
and egoic necessities.
>>And when you do
that, all of a sudden,
you realize that path
has been blazed--
that there are all these
people there to make sure
that you are thriving,
that you're well fed,
that you're provided for,
that you have housing.
>>And you're not
alone, and there's
others that are
searching and reaching.
And in that, you find
strength and the willingness
to uncover this beautiful
mystery that we have as a life.
>>The opportunity for self
realization is at hand.
And those that choose,
in this particular life,
to express and experience that--
the opportunity is available.
>>There's a shift occurring
on our planet right now.
It's always occurring,
but it's really happening.
It's accelerating right now.
>>It's no coincidence
that we're all part of it,
because I just believe
we were birthed for this.
We are the people for this time.
>>It's the time, and we
need to do everything
we can to capture this, because
this is our opportunity now.
>>And we're ready now.
We're ready for
that movement-- just
to take over and move us
into another way of thinking
and living and being
on this planet.
>>I'm ready.
I'm ready, and let's go.
Let's go, man.
No holds barred.
Let's do it.
>>It's already here,
and we just need
to keep spreading it around.
>>People come in all
kinds of disguises.
Brash personalities,
demanding, hurt, wounded,
attacking, sometimes.
And I just love them.
I just love them.
But no one has the power to
cut themselves out of my heart.
They don't have that.
I don't care how wretched
they act, what they say.
They can't dig themselves
out of my heart.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Are we rolling right now?
>>Wait, sorry.
Hi there.
>>Is there a format?
Everybody speaking the same way?
Looking the same way?
>>Do we talk to
you, or the camera?
>>So we introduce ourselves?
I mean, you know.
Is it gonna have the
little things underneath?
[INAUDIBLE]
You know, the little thing.
Testing, one, two.
>>Spiritual liberation.
>>OK.
My father is Reverend
Michael Beckwith, or--
>>Michael Bernard Beckwith.
>>Why do they do that?
>>Because that's
his middle name.
Sometimes the
Reverend, I feel like,
can be intimidating for people.
>>Do you know if this is true?
>>I think so.
>>Or is this your opinion?
Because the book doesn't
say Reverend, right?
>>No.
It's Michael Bernard Beckwith.
Then it's just very relaxed.
He's just a guy, just
speaking the truth.
>>Have you read the book?
>>I actually have read the book.
He's a DJ, I'm an actress.
We stepped outside the
box in our own careers,
and he's always supported
us to do anything.
To know that your father
supports you in anything
that you do just makes
you feel like you
can take over the world.
You can do it.
So I think that that's--
>>You're taking over
this interview, dude.
>>Sorry.
>>Can we just step out?
>>I would say that he's
always walked the walk.
Always.
Growing up, I mean, the green
shakes-- when there was a test,
if he knew I had a test--
>>Oh, goodness.
>>There was a green shake.
>>Drink this, boy.
>>Drink this.
You need to drink this.
This is gonna make the
power go to your head.
You're gonna have all the
answers and all the energy.
Like, six, seven years old.
We do pretty good
imitations of him, yes?
The power is within you.
It's not outside of yourself.
Are you catching this?
>>You getting this?
>>Are you getting this?
>>I think that
definitely, something
is-- I want to say channeling
or coming through him.
>>It still amazes me, and
I've known him my whole life.
And watching him-- we go
to church every Sunday.
It's like, how do you put
all those words together?
>>Just [INAUDIBLE].
>>He's a fun dude
to be around, too.
He's cool.
>>Any questions?
>>So.